While your competitors are burning VC
money on expensive ads, events, or
outbound sales, you can be building a
revenue generating asset that compounds
month after month, drives higher quality
leads, and costs less to maintain once
it's up and running. I'm Sam from
Breaking B2B. And over the last few
years, I've helped dozens of B2B and SAS
companies like Proposify, Events, Check
Writers, and many more drive millions in
pipeline and revenue, all through SEO, a
channel that so many marketers and
founders get completely wrong or just
totally neglect. In this video, I'll
explain exactly how SEO can become your
most profitable growth channel and how
it can be the difference from hitting
that next funding round or completely
running out of runway. Let's dive into
it. First off, let's talk about why so
many B2B and SAS companies are bleeding
cash. According to Monetiz, the average
customer acquisition cost, CAC, has
increased by over 60% in the last 5
years. And from a Dream Data report,
many B2B companies are spending 10 to
30% more yearonear on their Google ads.
Not only that, but many B2B or tech
companies are pouring anywhere from 10
to 50K plus on several events throughout
the year, which may or may not drive a
steady flow of qualified leads. And when
it comes to outbound sales, cold email,
cold calling, many companies are seeing
low response rates anywhere as small as
1 to 5%, meaning it's getting harder and
harder to reach your dream clients with
your message at the right time when it
comes to outbound. So, what the heck
does all this mean? Well, every month
your CAC payback is going to extend. All
these channels mean you're effectively
renting your audience in traffic opposed
to owning it. If you're VC backed and
your next funding round doesn't hit soon
enough, relying on outbound sales teams,
paid media, trade shows, which can often
be super expensive, is not sustainable.
Which in theory means your go-to market
strategy could be a ticking time bomb.
And this is exactly why you need organic
evergreen channels like SEO. With SEO,
you're building pages, content, and
assets that drive pipeline and revenue
month after month without the heavy
costs that are often associated with
paid media events or outbound sales. And
unlike ads, your rankings can compound.
Your organic traffic and inbounds can
ramp up month after month. Plus, you
don't go into bidding wars with
companies that have got more VC cash to
burn through when it comes to their
Google Ads or LinkedIn ads spend. SEO
helps you build a sustainable foundation
to help you get found on Google organic
LLMs like Chat GBT. And it's not
suddenly going to disappear when cash
gets tight. And your buyers aren't
stupid. They know the difference between
a paid or a sponsored ad and an organic
result. And often times, folks place
more trust in the organic search
results. And not only that, but if your
dream clients keep seeing you top of
Google's organic search results, as well
as LLMs like Chat, GBT, and similar,
it's going to help build up your brand
reputation, your brand recall,
MindShare, and most likely get you into
the consideration set when those dream
clients need your solution. Now, real
quick, if you want to start driving
pipeline and revenue with SEO, often as
quick as 90 days, book a call with me
over at breakingb.com or hit the link in
the description below. Right, back to
the video. So, let's talk about if SEO
really is the solution to your B2B or
SAS company's growing pains and dig into
the economics. Once you start ranking
top for your money bottom offunnel
keywords, that means your spend is going
to go right down. You don't need an
ongoing advertising spend. Unlike ads,
when you want to cover more ground, your
cost increases exponentially. But with
SEO, you can keep ramping up to more
keywords, build out your content, build
out your landing pages, your articles,
your link building strategy, and much
more without the crazy high ad spends
that you can often see on other
platforms. And of course, you don't have
to pay for each and every clickth
through to your website, regardless of
whether it converts into a signup, lead,
booked call, or demo. But my favorite
part about SEO is the compounding
interest aspect. So each asset, each
page, each blog post, landing page,
comparison page, alternative page,
product page, feature page, or more
works like a 247 sales rep. Essentially
putting multiple lines in the water on
Google organic search and LLMs each time
those dream clients have a problem you
solve, are searching directly for your
solution, or are looking to move away
from the incumbent vendor. And unlike
ads, as soon as you switch them off,
everything stops. organic search can
work for you for months and years to
come. And as long as you've got the
right pipeline focused SEO strategy in
place, each month's content, link
building, technical, digital PR work can
compound on itself, building that
flywheel effect. Meaning content you
published months ago can continue to
drive inbound leads, signups, or demos
whilst you're focusing on other
projects. And this will create something
that most B2B and SAS companies dream
of, a predictable pipeline without the
unpredictable costs. According to the
digital marketing institute, organic SEO
focused leads convert 8.5 times more
than outbound salesdriven leads. And
this all makes sense, right? Your sales
team are getting warmer inbound
inquiries, demos, or signups from folks
that probably trust your brand more
because they've already had a good look
around your website, know what you do,
how you help, how you're different, have
seen your results and pricing, and are
ready to discuss business opposed to
someone that's reached out to them cold.
Through your SEO efforts, you're
creating a sustainable moat around your
website of this evergreen compounding
effect your competitors can't suddenly
replicate. So you no longer have to be
at the mercy of rising ad costs, hoping
for the next customer referral, or
waiting for your outbound sales team to
generate a qualified appointment. You've
probably heard of the 955 rule. At any
one given time, 95% of your target
market are not actively looking for your
solution. And roughly 5% at any given
time will be in market for a solution
like yours. Great SEO doubles down on
that 5% of your dream clients that are
in market for your solution. Now, so if
you provided payroll software, you'd
start showing up for things like best
payroll software or paychecks
alternatives or paychecks versus ADP or
crisp and specific problems that your
ICP might be searching for when they
need your solution. So, in short, every
time a dream client needs your solution
or your category, now when they have a
super expensive problem they need to
solve, when they're frustrated with
their incumbent vendor, or they're
weighing up several vendors looking for
the best option of choice, your product
or your solution or your service shows
up top of Google's organic search
results or in chat GBT or LLMs, meaning
that you're going to be top of mind and
most likely to drive that potential
inbound demo, but call or sign up. And
beyond all of this, SEO helps you build
a solid brand. Because let's be real for
a minute. If you're selling expensive,
high consideration software, solutions,
product, or services, no one suddenly
decides to spend 50, 100K, 150K, or even
a million a year in average contract
value on your solution. Where SEO comes
into play is they might search for the
crisp and specific problem that you're
solving either on Google or an LLM. Or
they might directly look for your
category or your type of software or
perhaps they even look to move away from
a vendor or compare other vendors. When
you're suggested in LLMs, when your
brand comes up or when your page is
ranked on Google search, that can all
help you get into the consideration set.
So when a dream client sees you top,
what they might do is ping their exec
team on Slack and then say, "Hey, we
should shortlist the company. I've
looked at their website. I've looked at
this article. I understand that their
product can help us. I've seen their
results, their case studies, and more.
Let's add them into the consideration
set. So, it all builds another layer of
trust. Then after that, they might check
out your company on LinkedIn, follow
some of your exact team. They might
check out your podcast or subscribe to
your newsletter or check out your
YouTube channel. Then they might search
for your solution again, do a deeper
dive on your website, and several weeks
or months later, they might eventually
book a call, go through a demo or a
presentation, and eventually invest in
your solution. And SEO was a big part of
that puzzle. And most importantly, if
you're a founder and you can show to
investors that you've got sustainable
growth trajectory, driving pipeline,
leads, and revenue, and you show you're
not relying on things that can be
volatile, whether that's outbound sales,
paid media, trade shows, or otherwise,
chances are that sustainable growth is
going to look a lot more appetizing to
potential investors. And you might be
thinking, "Well, Sam, this all sounds
well and good, but doesn't SEO take
ages, like 6 to 12 months minimum?"
Well, the truth is many of our clients
at BreakingB2B often see results as fast
as 90 days from publishing their first
piece of content. If you head over to
breaking B2B.com, hit the results tab,
you can see interviews and case studies
with marketing leaders, founders from
B2B and SAS companies sharing why they
chose us and their exact results they
experienced. Including companies like
Check Writers that started ranking top
for competitor alternative searches
within 90 days. Companies like Aventzer
that have been with us for some time now
that are ranking top for category based
searches, alternative based searches,
and more driving sustainable pipeline
and demos to their sales team. as well
as Worldspark who actually saw impact 30
days from publishing content with our
strategy. Not only that, but we practice
what we preach. So, if you search for
things like SAS SEO agency or B2B SAS
SEO agency, we're often showing up top
or top three in UK, US, and many other
regions. So, we really try to practice
what we preach when it comes to SEO, LLM
visibility, eating our own dog food, and
driving inbounds when it comes to
organic search. So, the real question
is, are you ready to start ramping up
SEO this quarter, or are you going to
keep giving your competitors a free
lunch 24/7 and let them enjoy all that
organic brand, mind share, and most
importantly, inbound leads and pipeline?
If you want to start making SEO and LLMO
a sustainable growth channel for your
business, why not grab a call with me
over at breakingb2b.com or hit the first
link in the description below. We'll
analyze your current situation, your
issues, your problems, your goals, and
see if we're a good match to start
driving growth, pipeline, and revenue
through organic search. So, head over to
breakingb2b.com to grab that call or see
below. Or if you're not ready yet, why
not grab my 90 days to revenue SEO
playbook. Head over to breaking B2B.com
and hit the newsletter tab or check out
the breaking B2B podcast for more SEO
tips and interviews each week with SAS
marketing leaders on exactly how they're
driving growth today. And with that, I
shall catch you on the next one.